README.md, before:

# Express Note Taker
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-brightgreen.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## Description 
>*Express.js Note Taker that can write, save, edit and delete notes.*

-----------
## Table of Contents

* [Installation and 'How to' Video](#installation)

* [Usage](#usage)

* [License](#license)

* [Contributing](#contributing)

* [Tests](#tests)

* [Resources](#resources)

* [Questions](#questions)

-----------
## Installation 
>[Click Here To Watch How To Video](https://drive.google.com/file/d/18HlMWcC_DRKWkPZMGBccZT5G4ThC7QKM/view)
The video cuts out a bit at the end, but you'll get the gist of it. If you have any questions feel free to reach out to me. Twitter is easiest... I'm way too active on it.

-----------

## Usage 
I made sure to leave some good comments for all the code so you can get an idea of what does what. This project is open for all to use and manipulate however they like. Learn HTTP Methods, the Express Web Server Framework, and more especially `nodemon` which is simply an amazing package for all intents and purposes.

-----------

## License 
This project was created under the MIT License.

-----------

## Contributing 
This homework was definitely a group effort. I can't thank enough my study group partners Joe Lyons, Toni Powell, Cathy Marchese, Patrick DeMarco and Heath Bennett for the brainstorming. Even when we were hitting walls understanding the express concepts and syntax, it was great being able to work out what wasn't understanding in a Rubby Ducky Method type of way.

Also, major shout out to my tutor Byron Brown, who showed me how to do the same thing in different ways, so I wasn't glued arbitrarily to certain patterns I found in the assignments or online. Also, thank you to him, Steve Griffith and Brad Traversy for the detailed explanations of complex topics such as express, try/catch, and how to integrate node's file system module into a route handler.

-----------

## Tests 
This website will be deployed momentarily to Heroku. This will be the live test, with a 'Note Taker App' note already saved to the app upon deployment (it's technically the sole object within an array within the db json file). View video for installation instructions to download on your local machine and test further.

-----------

## Resources
[How To Use __dirname in Node.js](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/nodejs-how-to-use__dirname#:~:text=__dirname%20is%20an%20environment,containing%20the%20currently%20executing%20file.)
 
[W3Schools Node.js path.join() Method](https://www.w3schools.com/nodejs/met_path_join.asp)
 
[nodejs.org path.join([...paths])](https://nodejs.org/api/path.html#path_path_join_paths)
 
[Stack Overflow: what is app.use](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11321635/nodejs-express-what-is-app-use#:~:text=use%20is%20a%20way%20to,req%2C%20res%2C%20and%20next.)
 
[Expressjs.com app.use()](http://expressjs.com/en/4x/api.html#app.use)
 
[Serving static files in Express](https://expressjs.com/en/starter/static-files.html)
 
[Expressjs.com Routing](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/routing.html)
 
[MDN: Callbacks](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Callback_function)
 
[MDN: JSON.stringify()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/stringify)
 
[nodejs.org fs.writeFileSync(file, data[,options])](https://nodejs.org/api/fs.html#fs_fs_writefilesync_file_data_options)
 
[Expressjs.com Router](https://expressjs.com/en/4x/api.html#router)
 
[res.json](https://expressjs.com/en/4x/api.html#res.json)
 
[basic routing](https://expressjs.com/en/starter/basic-routing.html)
 
[app.METHOD()](https://expressjs.com/en/4x/api.html#app.METHOD)
 
[Using middleware](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/using-middleware.html)
 
[req.body](https://expressjs.com/en/4x/api.html#req.body)
 
[HandleBars Templating in ExpressJS](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/handlebars-templating-in-expressjs/?ref=rp)
 
[req-body-property](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/express-js-req-body-property/)
 
[readFileSync](https://nodejs.org/api/fs.html#fs_fs_readfilesync_path_options)
 
[MDN: JSON.parse()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/parse)
 
[npm path-to-regexp](https://www.npmjs.com/package/path-to-regexp)

[res.sendFile()](https://expressjs.com/en/4x/api.html#res.send)
 
[send](https://github.com/pillarjs/send)
 
[Basic Routing](https://expressjs.com/en/starter/basic-routing.html)
 
[Using Middleware](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/using-middleware.html)
 
[Node.js Tips](https://codeburst.io/node-js-tips-read-json-serve-static-files-sorting-file-listings-f92a8559a89e)
 
[JSON Placeholder](https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/)
 
[When to use try/catch](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1722964/when-to-use-try-catch-blocks)
 
[Learn express middleware](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lY6icfhap2o&t=12s)
 
[Why router vs app](https://www.reddit.com/r/node/comments/8q83ry/appget_vs_routerget/)
 
[axios vs. express](https://www.quora.com/What-is-the-difference-between-Express-and-the-Axios-in-Node-js)
 
[console.log(http.METHODS)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IGFdJxkJRC0&list=PLyuRouwmQCjne87u8XUdOM5oCl7vI2vVL&index=3)
 
[Troubleshooting req. - headers, url, ip, hostname, method, protocol, path, query, params and subdomains](https://youtu.be/IGFdJxkJRC0?list=PLyuRouwmQCjne87u8XUdOM5oCl7vI2vVL&t=427)
 
[HTTP Request Verbs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pm28JXFAu4Y&list=PLyuRouwmQCjne87u8XUdOM5oCl7vI2vVL&index=5)
 
[How to use app.patch()](https://www.codota.com/code/javascript/functions/patch)
 
[How do API Keys work](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cF_MCAmuoI4&list=PLyuRouwmQCjne87u8XUdOM5oCl7vI2vVL&index=12)
 
[Express syntax](https://expressjs.com/en/5x/api.html)

[Joseph Lyons Express Notes](https://github.com/Josephjlyons/express-notes/blob/main/routes/apiRoutes.js)

[Trying to Parse an HTML Document](https://developers.suitecommerce.com/troubleshooting-uncaught-syntaxerror-unexpected-token-u-in-json-at-position-0.html)
 
[Unexpected Token In Json at Position 0](https://daveceddia.com/unexpected-token-in-json-at-position-0/)
 
[HTTP Status Codes](https://kinsta.com/blog/http-status-codes/)
 
[FearMichael 2021-mock-express](https://github.com/FearMichael/2021-mock-express)

[array.filter()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/filter)

[Error Handling in Express.js](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/error-handling.html)

-----------

## Questions 
GitHub: https://github.com/Pythonidaer

For additional information, please reach out to codefolio.work@gmail.com

<a href="https://twitter.com/jonamichahammo">
    <img alt="Twitter: jonamichahammo" src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/jonamichahammo.svg?style=social" target="_blank" />
</a>

Commit message:

Added Heroku Deployed link to my page

README.md, after:

# Express Note Taker
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-brightgreen.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## Description 
>*Express.js Note Taker that can write, save, edit and delete notes.*
[View Deployed Version Here](https://npm-express-note-taker.herokuapp.com/)
Note: Bootcamp did not create mobile-responsive text, so you will want to view this on a computer rather than a cell phone. iPads/tablets are fine.

-----------
## Table of Contents

* [Installation and 'How to' Video](#installation)

* [Usage](#usage)

* [License](#license)

* [Contributing](#contributing)

* [Tests](#tests)

* [Resources](#resources)

* [Questions](#questions)

-----------
## Installation 
>[Click Here To Watch How To Video](https://drive.google.com/file/d/18HlMWcC_DRKWkPZMGBccZT5G4ThC7QKM/view)
The video cuts out a bit at the end, but you'll get the gist of it. If you have any questions feel free to reach out to me. Twitter is easiest... I'm way too active on it.

-----------

## Usage 
I made sure to leave some good comments for all the code so you can get an idea of what does what. This project is open for all to use and manipulate however they like. Learn HTTP Methods, the Express Web Server Framework, and more especially `nodemon` which is simply an amazing package for all intents and purposes.

-----------

## License 
This project was created under the MIT License.

-----------

## Contributing 
This homework was definitely a group effort. I can't thank enough my study group partners Joe Lyons, Toni Powell, Cathy Marchese, Patrick DeMarco and Heath Bennett for the brainstorming. Even when we were hitting walls understanding the express concepts and syntax, it was great being able to work out what wasn't understanding in a Rubby Ducky Method type of way.

Also, major shout out to my tutor Byron Brown, who showed me how to do the same thing in different ways, so I wasn't glued arbitrarily to certain patterns I found in the assignments or online. Also, thank you to him, Steve Griffith and Brad Traversy for the detailed explanations of complex topics such as express, try/catch, and how to integrate node's file system module into a route handler.

-----------

## Tests 
This website will be deployed momentarily to Heroku. This will be the live test, with a 'Note Taker App' note already saved to the app upon deployment (it's technically the sole object within an array within the db json file). View video for installation instructions to download on your local machine and test further.

-----------

## Resources
[How To Use __dirname in Node.js](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/nodejs-how-to-use__dirname#:~:text=__dirname%20is%20an%20environment,containing%20the%20currently%20executing%20file.)
 
[W3Schools Node.js path.join() Method](https://www.w3schools.com/nodejs/met_path_join.asp)
 
[nodejs.org path.join([...paths])](https://nodejs.org/api/path.html#path_path_join_paths)
 
[Stack Overflow: what is app.use](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11321635/nodejs-express-what-is-app-use#:~:text=use%20is%20a%20way%20to,req%2C%20res%2C%20and%20next.)
 
[Expressjs.com app.use()](http://expressjs.com/en/4x/api.html#app.use)
 
[Serving static files in Express](https://expressjs.com/en/starter/static-files.html)
 
[Expressjs.com Routing](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/routing.html)
 
[MDN: Callbacks](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Callback_function)
 
[MDN: JSON.stringify()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/stringify)
 
[nodejs.org fs.writeFileSync(file, data[,options])](https://nodejs.org/api/fs.html#fs_fs_writefilesync_file_data_options)
 
[Expressjs.com Router](https://expressjs.com/en/4x/api.html#router)
 
[res.json](https://expressjs.com/en/4x/api.html#res.json)
 
[basic routing](https://expressjs.com/en/starter/basic-routing.html)
 
[app.METHOD()](https://expressjs.com/en/4x/api.html#app.METHOD)
 
[Using middleware](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/using-middleware.html)
 
[req.body](https://expressjs.com/en/4x/api.html#req.body)
 
[HandleBars Templating in ExpressJS](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/handlebars-templating-in-expressjs/?ref=rp)
 
[req-body-property](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/express-js-req-body-property/)
 
[readFileSync](https://nodejs.org/api/fs.html#fs_fs_readfilesync_path_options)
 
[MDN: JSON.parse()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/parse)
 
[npm path-to-regexp](https://www.npmjs.com/package/path-to-regexp)

[res.sendFile()](https://expressjs.com/en/4x/api.html#res.send)
 
[send](https://github.com/pillarjs/send)
 
[Basic Routing](https://expressjs.com/en/starter/basic-routing.html)
 
[Using Middleware](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/using-middleware.html)
 
[Node.js Tips](https://codeburst.io/node-js-tips-read-json-serve-static-files-sorting-file-listings-f92a8559a89e)
 
[JSON Placeholder](https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/)
 
[When to use try/catch](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1722964/when-to-use-try-catch-blocks)
 
[Learn express middleware](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lY6icfhap2o&t=12s)
 
[Why router vs app](https://www.reddit.com/r/node/comments/8q83ry/appget_vs_routerget/)
 
[axios vs. express](https://www.quora.com/What-is-the-difference-between-Express-and-the-Axios-in-Node-js)
 
[console.log(http.METHODS)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IGFdJxkJRC0&list=PLyuRouwmQCjne87u8XUdOM5oCl7vI2vVL&index=3)
 
[Troubleshooting req. - headers, url, ip, hostname, method, protocol, path, query, params and subdomains](https://youtu.be/IGFdJxkJRC0?list=PLyuRouwmQCjne87u8XUdOM5oCl7vI2vVL&t=427)
 
[HTTP Request Verbs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pm28JXFAu4Y&list=PLyuRouwmQCjne87u8XUdOM5oCl7vI2vVL&index=5)
 
[How to use app.patch()](https://www.codota.com/code/javascript/functions/patch)
 
[How do API Keys work](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cF_MCAmuoI4&list=PLyuRouwmQCjne87u8XUdOM5oCl7vI2vVL&index=12)
 
[Express syntax](https://expressjs.com/en/5x/api.html)

[Joseph Lyons Express Notes](https://github.com/Josephjlyons/express-notes/blob/main/routes/apiRoutes.js)

[Trying to Parse an HTML Document](https://developers.suitecommerce.com/troubleshooting-uncaught-syntaxerror-unexpected-token-u-in-json-at-position-0.html)
 
[Unexpected Token In Json at Position 0](https://daveceddia.com/unexpected-token-in-json-at-position-0/)
 
[HTTP Status Codes](https://kinsta.com/blog/http-status-codes/)
 
[FearMichael 2021-mock-express](https://github.com/FearMichael/2021-mock-express)

[array.filter()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/filter)

[Error Handling in Express.js](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/error-handling.html)

-----------

## Questions 
GitHub: https://github.com/Pythonidaer

For additional information, please reach out to codefolio.work@gmail.com

<a href="https://twitter.com/jonamichahammo">
    <img alt="Twitter: jonamichahammo" src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/jonamichahammo.svg?style=social" target="_blank" />
</a>
